{"query_id": "1", "query": "When was quantum field theory developed?", "positive_passages": [{"docid": "2078963#10", "text": "The third thread in the development of quantum field theory was the need to handle the statistics of many-particle systems consistently and with ease. In 1927, Pascual Jordan tried to extend the canonical quantization of fields to the many-body wave functions of identical particles using a formalism which is known as statistical transformation theory; this procedure is now sometimes called second quantization. In 1928, Jordan and Eugene Wigner found that the quantum field describing electrons, or other fermions, had to be expanded using anti-commuting creation and annihilation operators due to the Pauli exclusion principle (see Jordan–Wigner transformation). This thread of development was incorporated into many-body theory and strongly influenced condensed matter physics and nuclear physics.", "title": "History of quantum field theory"}], "negative_passages": [{"docid": "1231204#1", "title": "Constructive quantum field theory", "text": "Attempts to put quantum field theory on a basis of completely defined concepts have involved most branches of mathematics, including functional analysis, differential equations, probability theory, representation theory, geometry, and topology. It is known that a \"quantum field\" is inherently hard to handle using conventional mathematical techniques like explicit estimates. This is because a quantum field has the general nature of an \"operator-valued distribution\", a type of object from mathematical analysis. The existence theorems for quantum fields can be expected to be very difficult to find, if indeed they are possible at all."}, {"docid": "1057601#3", "text": "Since the end of the eighties, the local quantum field theory approach due to Rudolf Haag and Daniel Kastler has been implemented in order to include an algebraic version of quantum field theory in curved spacetime. Indeed, the viewpoint of local quantum physics is suitable to generalize the renormalization procedure to the theory of quantum fields developed on curved backgrounds. Several rigorous results concerning QFT in the presence of a black hole have been obtained. In particular the algebraic approach allows one to deal with the problems, above mentioned, arising from the absence of a preferred reference vacuum state, the absence of a natural notion of particle and the appearance of unitarily inequivalent representations of the algebra of observables. (See these lecture notes", "title": "Quantum field theory in curved spacetime"}, {"docid": "26998617#29", "title": "Field (physics)", "text": "These three quantum field theories can all be derived as special cases of the so-called standard model of particle physics. General relativity, the Einsteinian field theory of gravity, has yet to be successfully quantized. However an extension, thermal field theory, deals with quantum field theory at \"finite temperatures\", something seldom considered in quantum field theory."}, {"docid": "2078963#14", "title": "History of quantum field theory", "text": "The first approach that bore fruit is known as the \"interaction representation\" (see the article Interaction picture), a Lorentz-covariant and gauge-invariant generalization of time-dependent perturbation theory used in ordinary quantum mechanics, and developed by Tomonaga and Schwinger, generalizing earlier efforts of Dirac, Fock and Podolsky. Tomonaga and Schwinger invented a relativistically covariant scheme for representing field commutators and field operators intermediate between the two main representations of a quantum system, the Schrödinger and the Heisenberg representations. Within this scheme, field commutators at separated points can be evaluated in terms of \"bare\" field creation and annihilation operators. This allows for keeping track of the time-evolution of both the \"bare\" and \"renormalized\", or perturbed, values of the Hamiltonian and expresses everything in terms of the coupled, gauge invariant \"bare\" field-equations. Schwinger gave the most elegant formulation of this approach. The next and most famous development is due to Feynman, who, with his brilliant rules for assigning a \"graph\"/\"diagram\" to the terms in the scattering matrix (see S-matrix and Feynman diagrams). These directly corresponded (through the Schwinger-Dyson equation) to the measurable physical processes (cross sections, probability amplitudes, decay widths and lifetimes of excited states) one needs to be able to calculate. This revolutionized how quantum field theory calculations are carried-out in practice."}, {"docid": "2460228#0", "title": "Born approximation", "text": "Generally in scattering theory and in particular in quantum mechanics, the Born approximation consists of taking the incident field in place of the total field as the driving field at each point in the scatterer. The Born approximation is named after Max Born who proposed this approximation in early days of quantum theory development."}, {"docid": "47392500#27", "title": "Hamiltonian field theory", "text": "Hamiltonian field theory usually means the symplectic Hamiltonian formalism when applied to classical field theory, that takes the form of the instantaneous Hamiltonian formalism on an infinite-dimensional phase space, and where canonical coordinates are field functions at some instant of time. This Hamiltonian formalism is applied to quantization of fields, e.g., in quantum gauge theory. In Covariant Hamiltonian field theory, canonical momenta \"p\" corresponds to derivatives of fields with respect to all world coordinates \"x\". Covariant Hamilton equations are equivalent to the Euler-Lagrange equations in the case of hyperregular Lagrangians. Covariant Hamiltonian field theory is developed in the Hamilton–De Donder, polysymplectic, multisymplectic and \"k\"-symplectic variants. A phase space of covariant Hamiltonian field theory is a finite-dimensional polysymplectic or multisymplectic manifold."}, {"docid": "443757#0", "title": "Topological quantum field theory", "text": "A topological quantum field theory (or topological field theory or TQFT) is a quantum field theory which computes topological invariants."}, {"docid": "2181039#0", "title": "Qubit field theory", "text": "A qubit field theory is a quantum field theory in which the canonical commutation relations involved in the quantisation of pairs of observables are relaxed. Specifically it is a quantum field theory in which, unlike most other quantum field theories, the pair of observables is not required to always commute."}, {"docid": "19595676#4", "title": "Superstring theory", "text": "The development of a quantum field theory of a force invariably results in infinite possibilities. Physicists developed the technique of renormalization to eliminate these infinities; this technique works for three of the four fundamental forces—electromagnetic, strong nuclear and weak nuclear forces—but not for gravity. Development of quantum theory of gravity therefore requires different means than those used for the other forces."}, {"docid": "152664#0", "title": "Loop quantum gravity", "text": "Loop quantum gravity (LQG) is a theory of quantum gravity, merging quantum mechanics and general relativity, making it a possible candidate for a theory of everything. Its goal is to unify gravity in a common theoretical framework with the other three fundamental forces of nature, beginning with relativity and adding quantum features. It competes with string theory that begins with quantum field theory and adds gravity. \nFrom the point of view of Einstein's theory, all attempts to treat gravity as another quantum force equal in importance to electromagnetism and the nuclear forces have failed. According to Einstein, gravity is not a force – it is a property of spacetime itself. Loop quantum gravity is an attempt to develop a quantum theory of gravity based directly on Einstein's geometric formulation."}, {"docid": "5558472#2", "title": "Giuliano Preparata", "text": "Preparata dedicated a great part of his scientific activity to high energy physics, giving fundamental contributions to the construction of the standard model, the new synthesis of the subnuclear interactions. In particular, he clarified the nature of the Dirac quantum field of quarks, a fundamental premise for the electroweak unification, and he proposed a solution to the crucial problem of colour confinement in quantum chromodynamics (QCD), based on a non-perturbative analysis of the ground state of QCD. His analysis reveals the existence of a non-trivial ground state of QCD and constitutes an important step forward in our understanding of interacting quantum fields. From 1987 his attention turned to problems in the field of condensed matter and to nuclear physics, that he tackled armed with the picture of Quantum Field Theory. Preparata discovered that condensed matter systems, when both at sufficiently low temperatures and high densities will spontaneously develop new coherent solutions of quantum electrodynamics (QED). This allowed him to face old problems, like liquid water theory, and new ones, like cold fusion, from a completely new point of view. Moreover, along with Cecilia Saccone (Molecular Biology Professor of University of Bari), Preparata developed a Markov model of molecular evolution. He published approximately 400 papers in such diverse fields as subnuclear physics, nuclear physics, physics of lasers, superconductivity, superfluidity, liquid and solid water, condensed matter (glasses, colloids, electrolytes, etc.), physics of neutron stars, astrophysics of Gamma ray bursts, and cold fusion. A fierce and stubborn character, Preparata often encountered open ostracism from his peers."}, {"docid": "3525881#0", "title": "Thermal quantum field theory", "text": "In theoretical physics, thermal quantum field theory (thermal field theory for short) or finite temperature field theory is a set of methods to calculate expectation values of physical observables of a quantum field theory at finite temperature."}, {"docid": "28869024#1", "title": "Sergio Albeverio", "text": "He initiated (with Raphael Høegh-Krohn) a systematic mathematical theory of Feynman path integrals and of infinite dimensional Dirichlet forms and associated stochastic processes (with applications particularly in quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics and quantum field theory). He also gave essential contributions to the development of areas such as \"p\"-adic functional and stochastic analysis as well as to the singular perturbation theory for differential operators. Other important contributions concern constructive quantum field theory and representation theory of infinite dimensional groups. He also initiated a new approach to the study of galaxy and planets formation inspired by stochastic mechanics.Albeverio's main research interests include probability theory (stochastic processes; stochastic analysis; SPDEs); analysis (functional and infinite dimensional, non-standard, \"p\"-adic); mathematical physics (classical and quantum, in particular hydrodynamics, statistical physics, quantum field theory, quantum information, astrophysics); geometry (differential, non-commutative); topology (configuration spaces, knot theory); operator algebras, spectral theory; dynamical systems, ergodic theory, fractals; number theory (analytic, \"p\"-adic); representation theory; algebra; information theory and statistics; applications of mathematics in biology, earth sciences, economics, engineering, physics, social sciences, models for urban systems; epistemology, philosophical and cultural issues."}, {"docid": "2796131#80", "title": "Introduction to quantum mechanics", "text": "On its face, quantum field theory allows infinite numbers of particles, and leaves it up to the theory itself to predict how many and with which probabilities or numbers they should exist. When developed further, the theory often contradicts observation, so that its creation and annihilation operators can be empirically tied down. Furthermore, empirical conservation laws like that of mass-energy suggest certain constraints on the mathematical form of the theory, which are mathematically speaking finicky. The latter fact makes quantum field theories difficult to handle, but has also led to further restrictions on admissible forms of the theory; the complications are mentioned below under the rubric of renormalization."}, {"docid": "19515158#4", "title": "Higher-dimensional algebra", "text": "Supercategories were first introduced in 1970, and were subsequently developed for applications in theoretical physics (especially quantum field theory and topological quantum field theory) and mathematical biology or mathematical biophysics."}, {"docid": "1422748#1", "title": "Nonlinear Schrödinger equation", "text": "In quantum mechanics, the 1D NLSE is a special case of the classical nonlinear Schrödinger field, which in turn is a classical limit of a quantum Schrödinger field. Conversely, when the classical Schrödinger field is canonically quantized, it becomes a quantum field theory (which is linear, despite the fact that it is called ″quantum \"nonlinear\" Schrödinger equation″) that describes bosonic point particles with delta-function interactions — the particles either repel or attract when they are at the same point. In fact, when the number of particles is finite, this quantum field theory is equivalent to the Lieb–Liniger model. Both the quantum and the classical 1D nonlinear Schrödinger equations are integrable. Of special interest is the limit of infinite strength repulsion, in which case the Lieb–Liniger model becomes the Tonks–Girardeau gas (also called the hard-core Bose gas, or impenetrable Bose gas). In this limit, the bosons may, by a change of variables that is a continuum generalization of the Jordan–Wigner transformation, be transformed to a system one-dimensional noninteracting spinless fermions."}, {"docid": "25202#40", "title": "Quantum mechanics", "text": "Quantum field theories for the strong nuclear force and the weak nuclear force have also been developed. The quantum field theory of the strong nuclear force is called quantum chromodynamics, and describes the interactions of subnuclear particles such as quarks and gluons. The weak nuclear force and the electromagnetic force were unified, in their quantized forms, into a single quantum field theory (known as electroweak theory), by the physicists Abdus Salam, Sheldon Glashow and Steven Weinberg. These three men shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1979 for this work."}, {"docid": "151577#9", "title": "Causality (physics)", "text": "In the theory of general relativity, the concept of causality is generalized in the most straightforward way: the effect must belong to the future light cone of its cause, even if the spacetime is curved. New subtleties must be taken into account when we investigate causality in quantum mechanics and relativistic quantum field theory in particular. In quantum field theory, causality is closely related to the principle of locality. However, the principle of locality is disputed: whether it strictly holds depends on the interpretation of quantum mechanics chosen, especially for experiments involving quantum entanglement that satisfy Bell's Theorem."}, {"docid": "3784466#1", "title": "Causal perturbation theory", "text": "When developing quantum electrodynamics in the 1940s, Shin'ichiro Tomonaga, Julian Schwinger,\nRichard Feynman, and Freeman Dyson discovered that, in perturbative calculations, problems with divergent\nintegrals abounded. The divergences appeared in calculations involving Feynman diagrams with closed loops of virtual particles. It is an important observation that in perturbative quantum field theory, time-ordered products of distributions arise in a natural way and may lead to ultraviolet divergences in the corresponding calculations.\nFrom the mathematical point of view, the problem of divergences is rooted in the fact that the theory of\ndistributions is a purely linear theory, in the sense that the product of two distributions cannot consistently be defined (in general), as was proved by Laurent Schwartz in the 1950s."}, {"docid": "25312#23", "text": "Quantum field theory on curved (non-Minkowskian) backgrounds, while not a full quantum theory of gravity, has shown many promising early results. In an analogous way to the development of quantum electrodynamics in the early part of the 20th century (when physicists considered quantum mechanics in classical electromagnetic fields), the consideration of quantum field theory on a curved background has led to predictions such as black hole radiation.", "title": "Quantum gravity"}, {"docid": "1057601#0", "title": "Quantum field theory in curved spacetime", "text": "In particle physics, quantum field theory in curved spacetime is an extension of standard, Minkowski space quantum field theory to curved spacetime. A general prediction of this theory is that particles can be created by time-dependent gravitational fields (multigraviton pair production), or by time-independent gravitational fields that contain horizons."}, {"docid": "3881994#3", "title": "Bosonic field", "text": "Examples of bosonic fields include scalar fields, gauge fields, and symmetric 2-tensor fields, which are characterized by their covariance under Lorentz transformations and have spins 0, 1 and 2, respectively. Physical examples, in the same order, are the Higgs field, the photon field, and the graviton field. Of the last two, only the photon field can be quantized using the conventional methods of canonical or path integral quantization. This has led to the theory of quantum electrodynamics, one of the most successful theories in physics. Quantization of gravity, on the other hand, is a long-standing problem that has led to development of theories such as string theory and loop quantum gravity."}, {"docid": "269980#1", "title": "Julian Schwinger", "text": "Schwinger is recognized as one of the greatest physicists of the twentieth century, responsible for much of modern quantum field theory, including a variational approach, and the equations of motion for quantum fields. He developed the first electroweak model, and the first example of confinement in 1+1 dimensions. He is responsible for the theory of multiple neutrinos, Schwinger terms, and the theory of the spin 3/2 field."}, {"docid": "23108904#7", "title": "Myhailo Yadrenko", "text": "Yadrenko developed the spectral theory of homogeneous and isotropic random fields in Euclidean, Hilbert, and Lobachevskii spaces. These results were used by Yadrenko and his disciples for the solution of important problems of linear prediction and filtration of random fields. He founded the theory of Markov random fields, which represented a new direction in the theory of random fields. Later, the theory of Markov random fields was further developed in works related to problems of statistical physics and quantum field theory."}, {"docid": "1863306#25", "title": "John Moffat (physicist)", "text": "In 1990, Moffat proposed a finite, non-local quantum field theory. The theory was developed extensively by Evens, Moffat, Kleppe and Woodard in 1991. In subsequent work, Moffat proposed this theory as an alternative to the standard electroweak unification of electromagnetism and the weak nuclear interactions. Moffat's theory is a quantum field theory with a non-local term in the field Lagrangian. The theory is gauge invariant and it is finite to all orders of perturbation theory. For the standard model it can solve the Higgs boson mass hierarchy naturalness problem. It also leads to a finite quantum gravity theory.University of Toronto press releases re Moffat:"}, {"docid": "396721#3", "title": "Sheldon Lee Glashow", "text": "In collaboration with James Bjorken, Glashow was the first to predict a fourth quark, the charm quark, in 1964. This was at a time when 4 leptons had been discovered but only 3 quarks proposed. The development of their work in 1970, the GIM mechanism showed that the two quark pairs: (d.s), (u,c), would largely cancel out flavor changing neutral currents, which had been observed experimentally at far lower levels than theoretically predicted on the basis of 3 quarks only. The prediction of the charm quark also removed a technical disaster for any quantum field theory with unequal numbers of quarks and leptons — an anomaly — where classical field theory symmetries fail to carry over into the quantum theory."}, {"docid": "2078963#6", "text": "It was evident from the beginning that a proper quantum treatment of the electromagnetic field had to somehow incorporate Einstein's relativity theory, which had grown out of the study of classical electromagnetism. This need to put together relativity and quantum mechanics was the second major motivation in the development of quantum field theory. Pascual Jordan and Wolfgang Pauli showed in 1928 that quantum fields could be made to behave in the way predicted by special relativity during coordinate transformations (specifically, they showed that the field commutators were Lorentz invariant). A further boost for quantum field theory came with the discovery of the Dirac equation, which was originally formulated and interpreted as a single-particle equation analogous to the Schrödinger equation, but unlike the Schrödinger equation, the Dirac equation satisfies both the Lorentz invariance, that is, the requirements of special relativity, and the rules of quantum mechanics. \nThe Dirac equation accommodated the spin-1/2 value of the electron and accounted for its magnetic moment as well as giving accurate predictions for the spectra of hydrogen.", "title": "History of quantum field theory"}, {"docid": "2078963#4", "title": "History of quantum field theory", "text": "The first reasonably complete theory of quantum electrodynamics, which included both the electromagnetic field and electrically charged matter as quantum mechanical objects, was created by Paul Dirac in 1927. This quantum field theory could be used to model important processes such as the emission of a photon by an electron dropping into a quantum state of lower energy, a process in which the \"number of particles changes\"—one atom in the initial state becomes an atom plus a photon in the final state. It is now understood that the ability to describe such processes is one of the most important features of quantum field theory."}, {"docid": "16182822#5", "title": "Robert Kraichnan", "text": "In the 1950s, his work was focused on quantum field theory and the quantum mechanical many-body problem, developing starting in 1957 a method for finding a self-consistent formulation for many-body field theories, \"N-random-coupling-models\", in which N copies of a microscopic theory are coupled together in a random way."}, {"docid": "869590#4", "title": "Canonical quantization", "text": "Later the electromagnetic field was also quantized, and even the particles themselves became represented through quantized fields, resulting in the development of quantum electrodynamics (QED) and quantum field theory in general. Thus, by convention, the original form of particle quantum mechanics is denoted first quantization, while quantum field theory is formulated in the language of second quantization."}]}
{"query_id": "4624784#0", "query": "¿Cuál es la primera película argentina?", "positive_passages": [{"docid": "2466191#5", "text": "En 1899, Posadas realizó la primera película argentina de la historia y uno de los primeros documentales médicos de la cinematografía mundial. Fue una operación de quiste hidatídico de pulmón. El camarógrafo fue el francés Eugenio Py, pionero del cine en la Argentina. Utilizó un \"Cronofotógrafo Elgé\", desarrollado por Léon Gaumont. La película, de menos de dos minutos de duración, se extravió y fue rescatada antes de la demolición del viejo Hospital de Clínicas de la Universidad de Buenos Aires. La Cinemateca Argentina determinó que esta película es el primer filme argentino que se conoce y ha sido reconocido por las Cinematecas de París y Bélgica como el primer documento fílmico de una cirugía en el mundo. Posadas, entusiasmado con la nueva tecnología, vislumbró tempranamente su potencial para la comunicación y la labor científica.", "title": "Alejandro Posadas"}, {"docid": "1204168#78", "text": "La primera película cinematográfica y al mismo tiempo el primer cine documental de Argentina fue realizada en 1897 y dirigida por el occitano nacido con ciudadanía francesa Eugèni Py y naturalizado en Argentina con el nombre de Eugenio Py o, su nombre escrito en francés estándar: Eugène Py, este primer filme argentino, realizado poco después de la creación del cine en el mundo se denomina: La bandera Argentina. Se trataría de la primera película filmada en Argentina aunque otras versiones indican que el alemán Friedrich Figner habría hecho una filmación anterior con vistas de Buenos Aires, pero tal obra de Figner habría sido una obra extranjera retratando postalmente algunas zonas de la ciudad de Buenos Aires de entonces (circa 1890).", "title": "Cultura de Argentina"}, {"docid": "8757288#1", "text": "Esta película corta fue en realidad la cuarta o quinta, porque en 1896 tres películas cortas fueron filmadas y proyectadas en Buenos Aires por el alemán Federico Figner; estos tres cortos de Figner fueron conocidos como \"Vistas de Palermo\", \"Avenida de Mayo\" y \"Plaza de Mayo\". El corto \"La bandera argentina\" se presenta generalmente como la primera película del país debido a su título y significado patriótico, aunque los tres cortos de Figner están claramente fechados como proyectados el 24 de noviembre de 1896 (la primera película que se proyectó en el país fue una producción francesa de los hermanos Lumière, el 18 de julio de 1896). Los cortos de Figner y Py se encuentran perdidos en la actualidad.", "title": "La bandera argentina"}], "negative_passages": [{"docid": "4191666#14", "title": "Metegol (película)", "text": "En sólo cuatro días tras su estreno en Argentina el filme logró un gran éxito en taquilla, siendo vista por personas durante ese breve período. Es el mejor comienzo de una película argentina desde que existen registros, entrando a la historia del cine nacional. Obtuvo el mejor arranque de una película argentina al vender localidades en sus primeros cuatro días en cartel. Desplazó a \"Bañeros todopoderosos\", que había obtenido asistencias a la semana de su estreno. Detrás quedan \"Un novio para mi mujer\" (), \"Dos más dos\" () y el anterior filme de Campanella, \"El secreto de sus ojos\" (). La marca fue reportada por la consultora Ultracine. Actualmente el récord fue superado nuevamente por la película nominada al Óscar Relatos salvajes con espectadores."}, {"docid": "9512749#0", "title": "Número de Erdős-Bacon", "text": "El Número Erdős-Bacon de una persona es la suma de un número de Bacon con un número de Erdős, el cuál mide la «distancia laboral colaborativa» entre autoridades del área matemática, entre aquella persona y el matemático húngaro Paul Erdős, lo cuál representa el número de enlaces en el área matemática, y a través de actuaciones en películas, mostrando cuán la persona está separada del actor estadounidense Kevin Bacon. El más bajo número es el más cercano a Erdős y Bacon, el cual refleja un pequeño fenómeno mundial en la academia matemática y el entretenimiento."}, {"docid": "437125#3", "text": "De la Púa además, tuvo que buscar en varios teatros de Buenos Aires, a músicos que puedan tocar en la película mientras cantaba la actriz Tita Merello, quien lleva un papel principal junto a Alberto Gómez y Libertad Lamarque. Aunque también contó con las orquestas de tango de Juan de Dios Filiberto, Osvaldo Fresedo y Pedro Maffia. La productora Argentina Sono Film tuvo su primera producción creando dicha película, ya que su fundación fue en 1933. La película mostró fuerte influencia de Hollywood en su cine técnico. Fue el primer largometraje de sonido óptico que se produce en la Argentina, en el nuevo estudio de sonido óptica de Argentina Sono Film.", "title": "¡Tango!"}, {"docid": "5693405#0", "title": "Malena Sánchez", "text": "Malena Sánchez (Buenos Aires, 7 de agosto de 1991) es una actriz argentina de cine, teatro y televisión. Con tan sólo 18 años, protagonizó su primera película junto a la reconocida actriz Norma Aleandro. Ya lleva filmadas más de 14 películas argentinas y un protagónico en una coproducción internacional (España, Argentina, Brasil, Italia y Estados Unidos)."}, {"docid": "3040128#0", "title": "Boogie, el aceitoso (película)", "text": "Boogie, el aceitoso es una película argentina-mexicana de animación, acción y humor negro de 2009, basada en el personaje homónimo creado por Roberto Fontanarrosa. Fue dirigida por Gustavo Cova y cuenta con las voces de Pablo Echarri como Boogie y Nancy Duplaá como Marcia en Argentina, y por Jesús Ochoa (Boogie) y Susana Zabaleta (Marcia) en México. Fue la primera película en 3D hecha en Argentina y la segunda hecha en México. Se estrenó el 22 de octubre de ."}, {"docid": "7749268#6", "text": "El pionero del cine argentino, Federico Valle, italiano, radicado en la Argentina en 1915, realizó junto a Pablo Benedetti el filme \"La mujer de medianoche\" estrenado en 1925, que fue la primera película que llevaba en la parte inferior del fotograma el pentagrama musical para que las orquestas en los cines tocaran la música incidental que correspondía al filme y fue también la primera película en la que aparece por primera vez el tango \"Buenos Aires\".", "title": "Buenos Aires (tango)"}, {"docid": "9467189#28", "title": "Lynda Benglis", "text": "Uno de sus vídeos más conocidos es \"Female Sensibility (Sensibilidad femenina)\" (1973), que muestra a la artista besando y lamiendo la cara de su compañera Marilyn Lenkowsky. Muchas otras de las primeras películas en solitario de Benglis fueron manipuladas, editadas y regrabadas de forma muy técnica, combinándose en secuencias de vídeo actuales y pasadas para acentuar la sensación de artificio. Por ejemplo, en \"Now\" (Ahora) (1973), la cara de la artista se muestra de forma recurrente, pero esta vez el marco de auto-evidencia de la televisión está recortado. La artista superpone un vídeo —en donde ella grita órdenes como \"¡Ahora!\" o \"¡Comienza a grabar!\"—, sobre otro vídeo antiguo en el que ella, aparentemente, hace eco del grito, difuminando la línea entre el documental y la actuación, al mismo tiempo que hace que sea difícil decir cual imagen de la artista pertenece al presente, cuál al pasado y, por lo tanto, cuál de ellas está verdaderamente realizándose."}, {"docid": "4538372#5", "title": "November (película)", "text": "La película presenta dos versiones diferentes de estos eventos, y Sophie debe descubrir cuál es real antes que pierda el control sobre su vida y su cordura. La segunda versión sugiere que Sophie estuvo presente en los disparos y se salvó sólo porque el tirador se quedó sin balas, y la tercera sugiere que Sophie y Hugh fueron asesinados. En palabras de Cox, su personaje \"atraviesa tres fases. La primera es la negación. Luego ella se siente culpable y mal sobre la situación. Luego tiene que aprender a aceptarlo.\""}, {"docid": "109338#9", "title": "Canal Beagle", "text": "De los dos brazos, el brazo Picton posee mayor profundidad que la bahía Moat (llamada canal Moat por Argentina). La corte arbitral consideró que no era su atribución establecer cuál de los brazos era el verdadero curso que sus descubridores atribuyeron al Beagle, sino que debía establecer cuál era el curso al que se refiere el tratado de 1881, que dedujo correspondía al señalado en las cartas del capitán Fitz Roy, única cartografía del área en la época, el cual demostró era el brazo Moat, otorgándole así a Chile la totalidad de las islas ubicadas al sur de ese brazo. La corte arbitral interpretó que Argentina opinaba que el canal Beagle desde la punta Navarro continuaba por el paso Picton y luego seguía hacia el suroeste por el canal Goree entre las islas Navarino y Lennox, para desembocar en la bahía Nassau en la línea que une punta María (en Navarino) con punta Guanaco (en Lennox), interpretación que Argentina mencionó entre las causales por las que declaró \"insanablemente nulo\" al laudo arbitral."}, {"docid": "3206378#0", "title": "Dibu: la película", "text": "Dibu: la película es una película de imagen real/animación estrenada el 10 de julio de 1997 en Argentina. Producida por \"Buena Vista Pictures\", \"Patagonik Film Group\" y \"Telefe\", es la primera película de la serie argentina \"Mi familia es un dibujo\". Después vendrían \"Dibu 2, la venganza de Nasty\" y \"Dibu 3, la gran aventura\". Obtuvo 1.250.000 espectadores"}, {"docid": "3287190#0", "title": "Blackout (película)", "text": "Blackout es un thriller finlandés escrito y dirigido por Jukka-Pekka Siili. Es estrenada el 25 de diciembre del 2008 en su país. El lema de la película es \" ¿Cuál es el primero en volver - la memoria o el asesino? \"."}, {"docid": "40127#17", "title": "Spaghetti western", "text": "Dado que no existe un consenso real sobre dónde trazar la línea exacta entre los spaghetti westerns y otros eurowesterns (u otros wésterns en general) no se puede decir con certeza cuál de las películas mencionadas hasta ahora fue el primer spaghetti western. Con todo, en 1964 se produjo la irrupción de este género, con más de veinte producciones o coproducciones de empresas italianas, y más de media docena de wésterns de empresas españolas o españolas/estadounidenses. La película de mayor éxito comercial fue, de lejos, \"Por un puñado de dólares\", de Sergio Leone. Fueron las innovaciones en estilo cinematográfico, música, interpretación e historia del primer wéstern de Leone las que determinaron que los spaghetti westerns se convirtieran en un subgénero distinto y no en solo una serie de películas que se parecían a los westerns americanos."}, {"docid": "1463057#0", "title": "¡Goal!", "text": "¡Goal! es una película argentina de 1936, dirigida por Luis José Moglia Barth y protagonizada por Sofía Bozán, Severo Fernández y Pedro Quartucci. Se estrenó el 14 de octubre de 1936. Producida por Argentina Sono Film, fue la primera película plenamente dedicada al tema deportivo. La película fue un fracaso, pero al año siguiente, con argumento similar, la productora lanzó una nueva película, también con Pedro Quartucci, que resultó un éxito: \"¡Segundos afuera! (película)\"."}, {"docid": "6639066#1", "title": "Lucas Bossio", "text": "Inició su carrera y se formó en el Club Guillermo Renny de Wenscelao Escalante. En el año 2008 comenzó a jugar en las inferiores de Arsenal, firmó su primer contrato profesional en el 2011 con la misma institución. Luego jugó en varios clubes del Argentino A, entre ellos Rivadavia de Lincoln, San Jorge, Sarmiento de Chaco y San Martín de Tucumán, en este último logró consolidarse con muy buenos rendimientos y se convirtió en el capitán y líder del equipo. Más tarde continuaría su carrera en Chacarita en su primera temporada en la B Nacional. En el 2017 fue fichado en el equipo dirigido por Diego Cagna, San Martín de Tucumán, en su segundo paso por la institución tucumana con la cual logró el ansiado ascenso a la primera categoría del fútbol argentino. En el 2018 se convirtió en refuerzo del Club Guillermo Brown de Puerto Madryn que milita la segunda categoría del fútbol argentino. En 2019 fue fichado por el Club Almagro en el cuál juega actualmente."}, {"docid": "404487#41", "title": "Fluminense Football Club", "text": "La hinchada del Fluminense tiene hermandad con la de Vélez Sarsfield de Argentina. A pesar de no quedar claro cuál sería el vínculo, la primera deducción sería que comparten los colores de la bandera Italiana (más identificada con el club argentino). De todas formas, la hinchada de Fluminense hace gala de su origen británico y se identifica con la colectividad italiana en Río de Janeiro. Aun así, la amistad está vigente y se consolida con los años."}, {"docid": "10044872#7", "title": "Jay Bahadur", "text": "En 2017 se estrenó una película basada en su libro, \"Los Piratas de Somalia\", la cuál fue dirigida por Bryan Buckley y su persona fue interpretada por Evan Peters."}, {"docid": "10016203#2", "title": "Paternal (película)", "text": "En el barrio Se encuentra la sede social de la Asociación Atlética Argentinos Juniors, club de fútbol centenario que milita en la Primera División Argentina donde Diego Maradona dio sus primeros pasos en la primera división argentina, cuyo estadio que alberga al club lleva el nombre del jugador."}, {"docid": "6077668#8", "title": "Campeonato Argentino de Rugby 2013", "text": "Las uniones ubicadas en las cuartas posiciones disputarán un partido entre sí para definir cuál mantiene la categoría y cuál desciende a la \"Zona estímulo\" para la siguiente temporada."}, {"docid": "7804#180", "title": "Paraguay", "text": "En 1932, el fotógrafo argentino Roque Funes grabó el primer largometraje documental en Paraguay, titulado \"En el infierno del Chaco\". En 1937 se filmó la primera película argumental \"Paraguay, tierra de promisión\", una coproducción paraguayo-argentina inconclusa. En 1954 se realiza la oficialmente primera coproducción de Argentina y Paraguay: \"Codicia\", dirigida por el italiano Catrano Catrani. Con \"El trueno entre las hojas\" (1958), del argentino Armando Bó, se inician una serie de coproducciones entre Argentina y Paraguay, como: \"La sangre y la semilla\" (1959) y \"En la vía\" (1959, inédita), ambas de Alberto Du Bois; \"La burrerita de Ypacaraí\" (1962), de Armando Bó; así como películas argentinas con participación paraguaya como \"Sabaleros\" (1959) e \"India\" (1960), de Armando Bó; o \"La sed\" (1961), de Lucas Demare."}, {"docid": "3821611#19", "title": "Guillermo Lobo", "text": "En septiembre de 2020, salió al aire Arriba Argentinos el noticiero matutino que emite por Canal 13, en el que cuál fue el conductor invitado."}, {"docid": "165610#35", "title": "Deporte en Argentina", "text": "Otra cosa a destacar es que fue el asistente (el tecnicismo de este deporte para entrenador) del ajedrecista europeo Alexander Alekhine, en su duelo contra José Raúl Capablanca, en la final del Torneo de las Naciones en Buenos Aires. La cuál, ganó Alekhine. Lo que hizo que Argentina sea conocida en el mundo del ajedrez."}, {"docid": "1558010#2", "title": "Artistas Argentinos Asociados", "text": "En 1938 la producción de películas en Argentina se encontraba en aumento con 41 estrenos que significaron el debut de 16 directores. En 1939 la cifra subió a 51 películas y se trajo a la Argentina la primera truca, lo que significaba un avance técnico importante para la calidad de las películas. El cine argentino tenía un enorme éxito y el cine Hispano, de Nueva York, estaba íntegramente dedicado a exhibir producciones de Lumiton y de Argentina Sono Film con enormes recaudaciones. En otros lugares de Estados Unidos como Texas, Colorado, Florida, Arizona, Nuevo México y California se repetía el fenómeno. En México se estrenaban casi todas las películas argentinas. En 1940 fueron 49 los estrenos pese a que comenzaba a escasear el celuloide en razón de la guerra, en 1941 hubo 47 estrenos que subieron a 57 en 1942."}, {"docid": "161045#19", "text": "En cuanto a Argentina, se dice que la primera película con tintes de terror fue \"El hombre bestia o las aventuras del Capitán Richard\" (1934) de C. Z. Soprani, parece ser que inspirada en la película alemana \"Ramper, der tiermensch\" (1927) de Max Reichmann. Pero que la \"primera\" película enteramente de terror fue \"Una luz en la ventana\" (1942) de Manuel Romero y protagonizada por el español nacionalizado argentino Narciso Ibáñez Menta. A ésta le seguiría la \"crime film\" \"Historia de crímenes\", del mismo año y con el mismo director y protagonista; asimismo Carlos Schlieper dirige la chilena \"La casa está vacía\" (1945) y hablando de cine chileno, no menos imprescindible es \"La dama de la muerte\" (1946), basada en la novela \"El club de los suicidas\" de Robert Louis Stevenson y dirigida por Carlos Hugo Christensen.", "title": "Cine de terror"}, {"docid": "1843022#7", "title": "Argentina en los Juegos Olímpicos de Berlín 1936", "text": "Se formaron dos grupos: Argentina, Gran Bretaña y México jugaron entre sí en el Grupo A, para definir los dos equipos que jugarían la final; Hungría y Alemania, por su lado, jugaron entre sí en el Grupo B, para definir cuál de los dos diputaría la medalla de bronce, con el equipo del grupo A que no alcanzara la final."}, {"docid": "8496826#6", "title": "Re loca", "text": "El acumulado hasta la fecha es de 731 424 espectadores según la consultora UltraCine, siendo una de las películas argentinas más vistas del año en dicho país, logrando así superar a \"Animal\" como la película argentina más vista del primer semestre."}, {"docid": "139440#14", "title": "Contraseña", "text": "Los \"Sistemas de Administración de Identidad\", se utilizan cada vez más para automatizar la emisión de reemplazos para contraseñas perdidas. La identidad del usuario se verifica al realizar algunas preguntas y compararlas con las que se tienen almacenadas. Preguntas típicas incluyen las siguientes: \"¿Dónde naciste?\", \"¿Cuál es tu película favorita?\", \"¿Cuál es el nombre de tu mascota?\" En muchos casos las respuestas a estas preguntas pueden ser adivinadas, determinadas con un poco de investigación, u obtenidas a través de estafa con ingeniería social. Mientras que muchos usuarios han sido advertidos para que nunca revelen su contraseña, muy pocos consideran el nombre de su película favorita para requerir este tipo de seguridad."}, {"docid": "3405756#1", "title": "Extraña invasión", "text": "La historia está ambientada en un pueblo del Sur de los Estados Unidos. Con diálogo enteramente en inglés, la película fue rodada en Ciudad Jardín Lomas del Palomar, Argentina. La coproducción fue una de las primeras películas argentinas filmadas en color. El reparto incluye actores norteamericanos como protagonistas y reconocidos actores y personalidades argentinas en los papeles secundarios, como Edmundo Sanders, Susana Beltrán y Mónica Cahen D'Anvers."}, {"docid": "8985933#1", "title": "Moritz Jahn", "text": "Moritz Jahn fue conocido como \"Karol\" en el programa para niños , en el cuál él era el actor principal desde 2007 hasta 2009. Su primer papel protagonista se produjo en 2010 en la película de televisión de dos partes ZDFtivi Prinz y Bottel . Moritz Jahn interpretó el doble papel de Calvin y Kevin. En 2011, Jahn protagonizó Der Himmel hat vier Ecken, en el cuál él interpretó su primer papel teatral. Estuvo nominado para el Max-Ophüls Premio por su interpretación en Off-line–Das Leben ist kein Bonuslevel en 2016. En 2017 realizó un papel secundario en Bettys Diagnosticar, interpretando a un niño de 17 años que tiene problemas de salud. El mismo año apareció en la serie de misterio Dark como Magnus Nielsen, el hijo rebelde de Ulrich Nielsen (interpretado por Oliver Masucci)."}, {"docid": "9294499#3", "title": "Distribución cinematográfica", "text": "Históricamente, todas las películas comercializadas masivamente fueron hechas para ser proyectadas en cines. El desarrollo de la televisión permitió que estas películas sean transmitidas a audiencias más grandes, usualmente después de que la película ya no fuera proyectada en teatros.. En 1971, U-matic se convirtió en el primer formato magnético en el cuál las películas podían ser disfrutadas en instituciones fuera del teatro. Más tarde ese año, las primeras videocinta de películas se hicieron disponibles para los consumidores en sus propias casas. La tecnología de grabación ha permitido desde entonces que los consumidores alquilen o compren copias de películas en VHS o DVD (o formatos más antiguos como laserdics, VCD y SelectaVision - véase también videodiscos) y las descargas de Internet también pueden fuentes de ingreso para las compañías de producción cinematográfica. Algunas películas pueden haber sido hechas específicamente para formatos no-teatrales, siendo lanzadas como \"telefilme\" o película \"directamente para video\". Los valores de la producción de estas películas a menudo se consideran de calidad inferior comparados con los lanzamientos \"para el cine\" de géneros similares; algunas películas fueron rechazadas por sus propios estudios de grabación pueden ser distribuidas en estos mercados después de su terminación. El cine paga un promedio de entre 50%-55% de la venta de entradas al estudio de grabación, como tarifa de alquiler."}, {"docid": "9213046#14", "title": "La casa Gucci", "text": "En Estados Unidos, los pronósticos iniciales estimaron que la película recaudaría 20 millones de dólares en sus primeros cinco días, tras su estreno en 3980 salas de cine. En su primer día recaudó 4.2 millones, seguidos por 3.39 millones en el segundo y 5.7 millones en el tercero, por lo que las estimaciones de sus primeros días aumentaron a 22.5 millones. El sitio \"[[Deadline Hollywood]]\" destacó que al menos un 31 % de la audiencia tenía más de 45 años de edad, el mayor porcentaje visto desde el comienzo de la [[pandemia de COVID-19]]. Asimismo, ante la pregunta de cuál era el motivo principal por el que habían ido a ver la película, un 40% respondió Lady Gaga, un 34% respondió la trama y un 32% dijo el elenco. La película finalmente recaudó 21.8 millones en sus primeros cinco días, con lo que ubicó la tercera posición de la taquilla, detrás de \"[[Encanto (película)|Encanto]]\" y \"[[Ghostbusters: Afterlife]]\". Dicha cifra supuso el mejor estreno de un drama en el [[Día de Acción de Gracias]] desde \"[[Little Women (película de 2019)|Little Women]]\", en 2019. Asimismo, la cinta generó 415.4 millones de interacciones en las diversas [[redes sociales]] durante su primera semana."}]}
